ENTER continue; ESC end install; SPACE BAR select drive
Press @ENTER@ to choose programs to transfer.
Install transfers 
@ to move highlight; @SPACEBAR@ to add/remove @
@TAB@ to change drive
Press @ENTER@ to begin.
@ to move highlight; @SPACEBAR@ to add/remove $
@ to move highlight; @SPACEBAR@ to add/remove $
@ENTER@ to accept selections, @F1@ for Help, @ESC@ to change drive.     
@ENTER@ to accept selections, @F1@ for Help, @ESC@ for previous screen.
                                                                
             F1 displays Help          ESC ends Install
 move highlight    SPACE BAR adds/removes 
Install cannot continue. You need to
select at least one item on this screen.
Install will transfer each program with a 
its name.  Use 
 to move the highlight to a
program name.  Press the space bar to add or remove a 
When you add or remove a 
, Install calculates how much 
disk space the selected programs will occupy and displays
the space available on the hard-disk drive you specified.
A brief description of each program follows:
1-2-3 Release 4 combines spreadsheet, graphics, and database;
now includes Wysiwyg and SmartIcons.
Additional Tools include the Auditor, Backsolver, Viewer, and
Solver add-ins, which provide additional functionality to 1-2-3.
Sample Files include SmartSheets, sample worksheet files that
let you work with 1-2-3 in various situations.
QuickStart for Upgraders is an interactive, online introduction
to the new features in 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS.
Translate lets you use data from other spreadsheet and 
database programs in 1-2-3 or lets you convert 1-2-3
worksheet data to other file formats.
Datalens Driver Files let you read data from and write data
to external database programs without leaving 1-2-3.
Press ESC to return to the Install menu
1-2-3 Release 4
Additional Tools (press SPACEBAR for options)
QuickStart for Upgraders
Translate Utility
DataLens Driver Files
1,1,11,10,11,8,11,10,1,,1,core,,0,,-1
1,0,12,10,12,8,12,10,1,,1,core,,0,,-1
1,1,13,10,13,8,13,10,1,,1,sample,,0,,-1
1,1,14,10,14,8,14,10,1,QSTART,1,qckstart,,0,,-1
0,1,15,10,15,8,15,10,0,,4,translate,,0,,-1
0,1,16,10,16,8,16,10,0,,6,datalens,,0,,-1
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,WYSIWYG,2,impimp,,0,,0
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,,2,impprod,,0,,0
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,ADDINS,2,impaddin,,1,WYSIWYG.PLC,0
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,COUNT,7,count,,0,,0
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,,1,dld,,0,,0
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,,1,lrf,,0,,0
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,,1,pbd,,0,,0
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,,1,vbd,,0,,0
@TRANSFERRING 1-2-3 RELEASE 4 AND ADDITIONAL PROGRAMS@
Install transfers the programs with marks beside
their names to your hard disk.
Press @ENTER@ to continue
WYS-SUB-WYSIWYG
ADDIN-SYM-SYM23
PGRAPH-SYM-SYM23
TUTOR-SUB-TUTOR
TRANS-SYM-TRANS
COUNT-SUB-COUNT
Specify @DRIVE@, select @PROGRAMS@, press @ENTER@ to continue
                   @SELECTING 1-2-3 PROGRAMS TO TRANSFER@
                    ...............................
                                                    -------------------------
                  Space needed for selected options:
                           Remaining space on drive:
Auditor checks and analyzes formulas in worksheets.
Backsolver lets you make the result of a formula
equal to a value you specify.
Viewer lets you view the contents of spreadsheet,
text, and database files on disk.
Solver lets you find the best answer or set of
possible answers for a what-if problem.
Mail Enabling for cc:Mail lets you send a text message, 
range, or file as an electronic mail message.  To do
this, you need Lotus cc:Mail version 4.02 for DOS or
later, and you must be connected to a mail server.
Add-In Library Files let you use add-ins developed with
the Lotus Add-In Toolkit.
Mail Enabling for cc:Mail
Add-In Library Files
Install cannot continue.
Not enough memory.
Your system does not have enough memory available to
use the rest of Install. End Install, remove all
memory-resident programs, and start Install from the
beginning. If this error occurs again, write down the error
message and have your hardware information available. Then
refer to the Customer Assurance Plan to contact Customer Support.
Access-denied error encountered while opening DEARJ.EXE.
Repeat the Install procedure from the beginning. If
this error occurs again, write down the error message,
have your hardware information available, and contact your
technical resource person or computer dealer.
The file DEARJ.EXE is damaged.
End Install, then start Install from the original
Disk 1 (Install). If this error occurs again, you need
a replacement disk. See the Customer Assurance Plan
for information on replacing damaged disks.
Install cannot find necessary files.
You must start Install from Disk 1 (Install).
Your hard disk does not have enough space for
Install to transfer the remaining files.
In order for Install to transfer the files you
need to use 1-2-3, you must make room on your
hard disk. To do this, end Install and delete
any unneeded files. When you start Install again,
select only the programs you want to use.
@RE-INSTALLATION@
Install has found that you have already installed this
software on a hard-disk drive. To continue installation,
please note the reason for reinstallation:
                                    @CHECK ONE:@
Re-Installation on the Same Machine:
Installation on a Secondary Machine:
Either you are trying to install a second copy of 1-2-3 Release 4
on a machine that already has a copy of 1-2-3 Release 4, or you
are trying to install 1-2-3 Release 4 on a second machine.
Select Re-Installation on Same Machine if you need to replace
your 1-2-3 Release 4 program files (for example, they may be
damaged or you may be recovering from disk failure).
Select Installation on a Secondary Machine if you have a second
machine (such as a portable machine or a notebook PC) and you
agree to secure a Home and Travel License pack.
@LICENSE INFORMATION@
The software agreement for this software only allows its use
on a single PC, for a single user. By the terms of this
agreement, you are obligated to obtain additional licenses
for use on additional PCs. Lotus makes available special
"Home & Travel" Licenses for this purpose.
The Home and Travel License pack includes a special set of
documentation specifically designed for travel, a set of
special screen drivers, templates for home finances and one
additional month of technical support, as well as a license
to use this software on a secondary machine.
To order your Home and Travel License Pack for $XXX.00 call
Lotus at 1-800-???-????.
By continuing this installation you agree to secure a License
for secondary machine use.
If you do not agree with this software agreement, press ESC
to end installation.
Press @ENTER@ to continue
F1 displays Help         ESC ends Install
 move highlight
F1 displays Help          ESC goes to previous page
The 1-2-3 Release 4 Install program cannot run on this type
of processor. You must have an 80286 or 80386 processor.
There is not enough memory available to run Install.
Remove all memory-resident programs and start Install
To run Install for 1-2-3 Release 4, your current drive and
directory must contain the Install program. The drive and
directory containing Install appears below. Make this drive
and directory current and start Install again.
You cannot run this program in the DOS Compatibility Box.
You must run this program with DOS 3.0 or later.
You cannot run Install in a Presentation Manager text window.
Select a full-screen command prompt, make the drive and directory
containing Install current, and start Install again.
1-2-3 Release 4 Install Program
Copyright 1994 Lotus Development Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.
Your system does not have enough memory available to run
Install. End Install, remove all memory-resident programs,
and start Install again.
Install cannot continue.
An error has occurred while trying to read the
file INSDISK.RI. End Install and check if the file
exists in the current directory. If the file exists,
start Install from the current directory again. If the
file does not exist, start Install from the original
You cannot run Install from the type of diskette you
have in the drive. You must use the original Install
Disk to install 1-2-3 Release 4.
You cannot use this diskette to record your name and
organization name because it has been damaged. You need to
get a replacement Install Disk so you can record your
name and organization name, which makes your copy of 1-2-3
See the Customer Assurance Plan for information on
on replacing damaged diskettes.
The diskette in the drive is not the original
To record your name and organization name on your
copy of 1-2-3 Release 4, you must start Install
from the original Install Disk.
You have not yet recorded your name and organization name on
your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4. You must do this to make
your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4 usable. After you read this
message, press ESC to return to the operating system
prompt. Delete all files in your 1-2-3 Release 4 program
directory and start Install from the original Install Disk.
Some of the files that 1-2-3 Release 4 needs are
missing. Without these files, 1-2-3 will not be able
to run correctly.
If you removed these files intentionally, you can
continue and specify the screen display and printers you
will use with 1-2-3. If you did not remove these files
intentionally, end Install and start it again from the
original Install Disk.
To continue with install, type @Y@.
To end install, type @N@.
Install has detected that some 1-2-3 Release 4 files in this
directory are compressed. You must decompress them before
they can be used. If you do not decompress them, these files
should be erased from the directory.
Install decompresses files automatically during the file-
transfer process. You can also use the Inflate utility to
decompress the files already in the directory.
At this point you can continue with Install. However,
if the files needed for Install to continue are compressed
files, Install will not be able to proceed.
The compressed files in this directory should be either
decompressed or deleted. They cannot be used while they
are compressed.
If you copied all the files from the diskettes using the
operating system COPY command, end Install now, delete
the files from the directory, and run the Install program
from the Install Disk. Install decompresses the files
automatically during the file-transfer process.
To decompress the files using the Inflate utility, see
Appendix 1 of Reference.
Install cannot find the file INS.EXE.
You must start Install from the Install Disk.
Install cannot find the file INSTALL.RI.
Install cannot find the file INSTALL.SCR.
Install cannot find the file INSTALL.DDF.
When you start Install from the Install Disk, type
               install
and press ENTER. Do not type anything after you type
An error occurred while trying to gain direct acccess
to your Install Disk. This could happen if your diskette
drive is being shared on a network. You cannot use this
drive at this time to run Install.
End Install. Make sure that the drive containing the
Install Disk is not being shared on a network, or insert
your Install Disk in a different drive. Then run
The 1-2-3 Install Program guides you through the following
steps, which you must complete before you can use 1-2-3:
* Recording your name and organization name on your copy of 1-2-3
* Specifying the hard-disk drive and directory for 1-2-3
* Transferring the 1-2-3 files to the 1-2-3 directory
Use, duplication, or sale of this software, except as
described in the Lotus Software Agreement, is strictly
prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
Welcome to the 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS Install program. You
use the Install program to prepare your system for use with 
1-2-3. During Install you select a drive and directory for the
1-2-3 program and add-in files. Install then transfers the 1-2-3
files to your hard disk.
You can end Install at any time before you complete it, but you
must complete it before you can use 1-2-3.
The 1-2-3 Install Program guides you through the following
steps, which you must complete before you can use 1-2-3:
* Specifying the hard-disk drive and directory for 1-2-3
* Transferring the 1-2-3 files to the 1-2-3 directory
NOTE  If you want only to specify or change your equipment
selections, start Install from your hard disk.
Use, duplication, or sale of this software, except as
described in the Lotus Software Agreement, is strictly
prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
Welcome to the 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS Install program. You
use the Install program to prepare your system for use with
1-2-3 Release 4. In Install, you will select a drive and
directory for the 1-2-3 program and add-in files. You will also
specify the 1-2-3 programs you want to transfer, such as the
Auditor, Backsolver, Viewer, and Solver add-ins, Translate
utility, and Add-In Library and DataLens files, and whether 
you want 1-2-3 to automatically load add-ins. You will then 
transfer the 1-2-3 files to your hard disk and select equipment
to use with 1-2-3, including screen display and printer.
You can end Install at any time before you complete it, but you
must complete it before you can use 1-2-3.
You use the 1-2-3 Install program to specify your equipment
so 1-2-3 can work correctly with it. You specify your
equipment by selecting items on menus.
NOTE  If you want to transfer the 1-2-3 program, add-in,
or utility files to your hard disk, you must start
Install from the Install disk.
To see a list of the keys you can use, press F1 now. You
can also press F1 for additional help at any time.
                    @RECORDING YOUR NAME AND ORGANIZATION NAME@
            Your name:    $
            Organization name: $
        Press @ENTER@ to switch between names, @INS@ when done.
            @F1@ displays a Help screen.    @ESC@ ends Install.
The first time you use Install you must record your name
and organization name. After you enter and confirm these names,
Install records them on your copy of 1-2-3. You will see
your name and organization name every time you start 1-2-3.
You can edit the names using BACKSPACE, DEL, 
After you finish editing both names, press INS.
To record your name and organization name, follow these steps:  
* Type your name below. If you make a mistake while typing,  
   use BACKSPACE, DEL, 
 to edit, then press ENTER.  
* Type your organization name. If you do not have an organization 
  name, type your own name a second time. Then press INS.
You entered the following names:             
If the names are correct, type @Y@.
If you want to change the names, type @N@.
You are being asked to confirm the names you entered.
After you confirm that the names are correct, they will
be recorded on your copy of 1-2-3.
If the names you entered are not correct, type N to
return to the previous screen and enter the correct names. 
Your entry is not valid. You must enter
a name in this input area.
Install cannot continue.
The diskette in the drive is write-protected.
You can end Install now or continue. To continue,
remove the diskette, undo the write protection,
reinsert the diskette in the drive, and press ENTER.
Install cannot save the names you entered
because the Install Disk is write-protected.
If you are using 5 1/4" diskettes, remove the
write-protect tab.
If you are using 3 1/2" diskettes, make sure the
sliding tab completely covers the hole.
@TRANSFERRING THE TRANSLATE UTILITY@
The Translate utility lets you exchange data between 1-2-3
and other programs. To save space on your hard disk,
Install transfers the Translate utility to your hard disk
only if you choose to do so. You cannot use the Translate
utility until you transfer it to your hard disk.
If you want Install to transfer the Translate utility,
type Y. If you do not want Install to transfer the
Translate utility, type N.
Do you want to transfer the Translate utility?  #
@F1@ displays a Help screen.  @ESC@ moves to a previous screen.
The Translate utility is a program that lets you convert
data files to and from the 1-2-3 Release 3 file format.
Because you can use Translate only from your hard disk,
Lotus recommends that you transfer the Translate utility
to your 1-2-3 Release 4 program directory now unless you
are certain that you will never need to use it.
The 1-2-3 files have been compressed to reduce the number of
disks in your Release 4 package. Install not only transfers
the files to the program directory, it also decompresses them
to make them usable. If you do not transfer the Translate
utility now and find that you need it later, you can either
use Install again or use a utility called Inflate to transfer
files necessary to use Translate. For more information on
using Inflate, see Appendix 1 of Reference.
@TRANSFERRING WYSIWYG FILES@
To save space on your hard disk, Install transfers Wysiwyg
to your hard disk only if you choose to do so. You cannot
use Wysiwyg until you transfer it to your hard disk.
If you want Install to transfer Wysiwyg to your hard disk,
type Y. If you do not want Install to transfer Wysiwyg to
your hard disk, type N.
Do you want to transfer Wysiwyg ?  #
@NOTE@  You must load Wysiwyg before you can use it to enhance
1-2-3 printing and display. To load Wysiwyg, start 1-2-3 and
press ADDIN (ALT-F10), select Load, and specify WYSIWYG.PLC.
To get Help on loading Wysiwyg, press F1 while using 1-2-3.
@F1@ displays a Help screen.  @ESC@ moves to a previous screen.
Wysiwyg provides spreadsheet publishing features for use
with 1-2-3 Release 4. Because you can use the Wysiwyg
files only from your hard disk, Lotus recommends that you
transfer the Wysiwyg files to your hard disk now unless
you are certain that you will never need to use Wysiwyg.
Before you can use Wysiwyg with 1-2-3, you must load it.
See "Basic Procedures for Using Wysiwyg" in Chapter 2 of
"Wysiwyg Publishing and Presentation" for instructions on
loading Wysiwyg.
The Install program found files in an existing ADDINS
subdirectory. Because you chose to transfer Wysiwyg to
your hard disk, the Wysiwyg files may write over existing
files in the ADDINS subdirectory.
 Type the letter of your hard-disk drive: #
Enter the letter of your hard-disk drive. The default letter,
C, is the letter assigned to most hard-disk drives. If you are
not sure of the letter of your hard-disk drive, check with your
technical resource person.
Install cannot locate the disk drive you specified.
You must specify another disk drive.
The disk drive you specified does not have enough space
to contain all the files 1-2-3 needs. Either end Install
and make room on the disk drive you specified, specify
a different disk drive, or change your program selections.
To specify a different disk drive, press ENTER.
An error occurred when Install tried to access the
drive you specified. You must specify another drive.
The drive you selected is a diskette drive. Because
you cannot start 1-2-3 Release 4 from a diskette,
Install will not transfer the program files to a
diskette drive. Specify another disk drive.
The drive you specified is not ready. Specify another
drive, or make the drive you specified ready. If the
drive accepts removable media, insert a disk or
cartridge in the drive and close or latch the door.
The disk in the drive is write-protected.
Install cannot transfer the 1-2-3 Release 4 program
files because the disk in the drive is write-protected.
Either undo the write protection and choose to continue,
or specify a different drive.
The disk drive you specified does not have enough space for the
programs selected. You can continue removing marks from
any companion programs you do not need, or end Install and make
room on the disk drive you specified, or you can choose another
 Before Install can transfer the Count utility, you must
 complete two steps: Specify the letter of the hard-disk drive
 for the Count utility and specify the name of the directory
 for the Count utility. You specify the hard-disk drive letter
 on this screen and the directory on the next screen.
 The Count utility lets you control how many users can run 1-2-3
 from the server at the same time.  Lotus recommends you transfer
 the Count utility to a location to which your users do not have
you do not start count utility from a diskette,
Install will not transfer the count files to a
and make room on the disk drive you specified or specify
a different disk drive.
 Type a name for your 1-2-3 directory:    $
Lotus recommends that you accept the default directory
name 123R4D. Accepting the default directory will ensure
that the new directory contains files only for 1-2-3
If you want to specify a different name for the 1-2-3
Release 4 program directory, use the following keys to
edit the directory name:  BACKSPACE, DEL, 
You entered the following directory:
This directory contains files that Install might write
over.  Are you sure you want to transfer files to this
If you want to transfer files to this directory, type @Y@.
If you want to change the directory name, type @N@.
Install cannot create the QSTART directory necessary for 
installation to proceed.
Check the directory name you entered below to be sure it is
correct. After you confirm the name, Install will create a
directory with that name on your hard disk.
* If the name you entered is correct, type Y and press
* If you want to change the name, type N and press ENTER.
The directory you specified does not yet exist. If you
want Install to create the directory, type Y and press
ENTER. Install will create the directory and transfer
1-2-3 files to it.
If you do not want Install to create this directory, type
N and press ENTER. Install will return to the screen on
which you specify a directory, and you will be able to edit
the directory name.
The directory you specified
You should use this directory only if the files in it
are count utility files.
If the files in the directory are count utility files,
If the files in the directory are not count utility
files, type @N@. Then enter the name of a different
The directory you specified contains files. If the files
are 1-2-3 Release 4 files, type Y and press ENTER.
Install will transfer the files to the directory. This
will allow you to restore any files that may be missing.
If the files in the directory are not 1-2-3 Release 4
files, type N and press ENTER. Lotus recommends that you do not
choose to write over any files that are not 1-2-3 Release 4
files because doing so may interfere with the way 1-2-3 runs.
The directory you specified contains compressed files. You cannot
use 1-2-3 Release 4 program files when they are compressed.
If you still want to use the directory name you specified,
If you want to change the name of the directory, type @N@.
Then change the name of the directory.
The directory you specified contains compressed files. Although
this will not prevent you from using this directory as your 1-2-3
program directory, if these compressed files are 1-2-3 files you
you will not be able to use them. You cannot use 1-2-3 files when
they are compressed.
You can save space on your hard disk by erasing the compressed
1-2-3 files after you complete the Install program. Compressed
1-2-3 files have an exclamation point (!) as the second letter of
the file name extension. For example, TRANS.E!E is a compressed
If the files are 1-2-3 files, you probably copied them to your
hard disk directly from the 1-2-3 disks. If you use the operating
system COPY command to copy 1-2-3 files to your hard disk, the
files will not be usable.
The directory name you specified contains invalid
characters. Do not use the following characters in
your directory name:
     (space) " [ ] : | < > + = ; , & ( ) * ?
You must specify a new directory name.
A directory name can have a maximum of eight characters.
The name you entered exceeds this limit. Enter a shorter
directory name.
The Install program found files in the directory you
specified that are not 1-2-3 Release 4 files.
You must specify an empty directory or the 1-2-3 Release
4 directory, if one exists. If you specify a 
directory that does not yet exist, Install will create
the directory for you.
You should save your configuration files before continuing
with Install. If you have already saved these files,
continue. If you have not saved these files, end Install
and save the files in a directory that is not your 1-2-3
Release 4 program directory. Then restart the Install
program. Save the following files:
For details, see "Installation Tips for 1-2-3 Upgraders"
in Chapter 3 of Getting Started.
Press ENTER to accept the add-in directory as displayed,
or change the directory and then press ENTER.
If you want to specify a different name for the 1-2-3
Release 4 add-in directory, use the following keys to
edit the directory name:  BACKSPACE, DEL, 
Install encountered an error while attempting
to search for an existing copy of 1-2-3 in the
directory you specified.  You may continue
searching or end Install.
After you specify a directory where you want 
Install to transfer files, Install checks to
see if files already exist in the directory.
 Enter a directory name for the Count utility. Press ENTER
 to accept the default directory, \COUNT. Install will
 create a directory with the name you specify if the
 directory does not already exist.
 Lotus recommends that you transfer the Count utility to a
 directory to which users do not have access.
The path you specified has exceeded maximum length when
ADDINS is to be included. Enter a shorter path name.
                    Insert the disk labeled %
                    into drive #. 
                   Press @ENTER@ to continue, @F1@ for Help.
To transfer the 1-2-3 files to your hard disk, Install
prompts you for some of the disks that came in your 1-2-3
package. Insert the disk named above into your disk
drive now, press ESC to leave Help, and press ENTER.
Because Install decompresses files as it transfers them,
transferring files will take some time.
                                                                  
                                                                
You inserted the wrong disk.
Remove the disk that is now in the
drive and insert the correct disk.
                     @TRANSFERRING THE 1-2-3 FILES@
                       Current Disk: %
                               File: $
      Percent Completed
                                                                        
                                                                             
You selected the programs marked (
If you want to transfer the selected programs, type @Y@.
If you want to change your selections, type @N@.
You are being asked to confirm the programs you selected.
After you confirm your selections, Install will transfer 
the necessary files.
Install cannot continue.
A file Install needed is not on this diskette.
You will need a replacement diskette. See
the Customer Assurance Plan for information
on replacing damaged diskettes.
Either another process is using the file or
another process has locked the drive.
End Install now and check your other processes,
then repeat the Install procedure from the
The diskettes you are using are either damaged or
inappropriate for your diskette drive. Either use a
different diskette drive or see the Customer Assurance
Plan for information on replacing damaged diskettes.
Access error opening a file.
Install could not open the file it needed. Make sure
you are not installing to a read-only disk and that you
have proper access rights, in the case of a network drive,
and repeat the Install procedure from the beginning. If 
this error occurs again, record the above error message
and have your hardware information available. Then
refer to the Customer Assurance Plan for information
on contacting Customer Support.
Install cannot put the pieces of your file
Repeat the Install procedure from the beginning.
If this error occurs again, record the above error
message and have your hardware information available.
Then refer to the Customer Assurance Plan for information
Your hard disk does not have enough room for
Install to transfer the files.
End Install, make room on your hard disk, and
beginning. See "What You Need to Run 1-2-3"
in Chapter 2 of Getting Started for information on
the amount of hard disk space 1-2-3 requires.
Access error reading file.
Access error writing file.
Install could not write to a file. Make sure you are
not installing to a read-only disk and that you
and repeat the Install procedure from the beginning.
The file was not transferred successfully.
End Install now and then start Install
A disk error occurred while closing the file.
Missing error closing file.
Access error closing file.
Your server's hard disk does not have enough
room for Install to transfer the files.
End Install, make room on your server's hard
disk, and then repeat the Install procedure
from the beginning. See "What You Need to Run 1-2-3"
The PATH environment variable is invalid. 
Install cannot successfully complete installation of 
Spell Checker support for 1-2-3 because of a syntax error 
in the LOTUS.INI file on your path.
Install has encountered an error while installing 
support for Spell Check in 1-2-3.  Check for an invalid
Data Path or User Path in the Spell Check section
of your LOTUS.INI file (found in one of the directories
specified in your environment variable PATH).
Install cannot access the LOTUS.INI file on your path.
                           @FILE TRANSFER SUCCESSFUL@
Install has successfully transferred the 1-2-3 files to
your 1-2-3 program directory. Install transferred only 
the files necessary for the programs you specified.
SPECIFYING YOUR EQUIPMENT
In the next part of Install, you will specify your
equipment so that 1-2-3 can work correctly with it.
You do so by selecting items on menus. After you 
finish making equipment selections, Install will 
transfer necessary files to your hard disk.
your 1-2-3 program directory, including a file named
README.PRN, which contains helpful information.
To exit the Install program, select End Install Program
from the Main Menu on the next screen.
If you are setting up nodes, see the Network
Administrator's Guide for instructions.
Install cannot continue.
Not enough memory.
Your system does not have enough memory available to
run the rest of Install. End Install, remove all
memory-resident programs, and start Install from the
beginning. If this error occurs again, record the above
error message and have your hardware information available.
Then refer to the Customer Assurance Plan for information on
contacting Customer Support.
Access-denied error encountered while opening INS.EXE
Repeat the Install procedure from the beginning. If
this error occurs again, record the above error message,
have your hardware information available, and contact your
technical resource person or computer dealer.
The file INS.EXE is corrupted or it is on the hard
disk in compressed format.
End Install, then restart Install from the original
Install Disk. If this error occurs again, you need
a replacement diskette. See the Customer Assurance Plan
for information on replacing damaged diskettes.
Your operating system is running the maximum number
of programs it can manage at this time. End Install,
reduce the number of programs running on your system,
and start Install again.
The file INS.EXE is corrupted or it is on your
server's hard disk in compressed format.
Monochrome Display Adapter
Color Graphics Adapter
Hercules Graphics Card (80x25)
Hercules Graphics Card Plus
Hercules InColor Card (80x25)
High-Resolution CGA
Enhanced Graphics Adapter
Video Graphics Array
8514 Display Adapter
Multicolor Graphics Array (MCGA)
EGA (64K) - color monitor
EGA (64K) - monochrome monitor
(Install cannot identify your display adapter)
You cannot install 1-2-3 at this time.
The diskette you are trying to use may be defective
or, if a network drive is involved, you may not have
proper access rights.  Check this possibility first,
and if it is not the case, you will need a replacement
diskette.  See the Customer Assurance Plan for information
on replacing damaged diskettes.
There is a syntax error in the disk list
(INSDISK.RI) file.
File descriptor must be one of the following:
  req, dos, trans, samp, special, never.
The program will ABORT when you leave this
popup. Correct the problem and retry.
The drive containing the diskette you are using is
not ready. Check that you inserted a diskette
correctly and that the drive door is closed.
Install needs to be able to read the diskette inserted
in the drive to operate. Make sure that the diskette or
cartridge is inserted correctly and that the drive
door, which may be a switch that turns or a button
that pushes in, is closed. If you are using a 3 1/2"
diskette, make sure that the diskette is completely
inserted in the drive.
An error has occurred.
Restart your computer, either by turning it off
and on or by pressing CTRL-ALT-DEL, and then restart
1-2-3. If the error occurs again, record the above
error message and make a note of what you did before
the error occurred. Then contact your technical
resource person.
Install cannot continue.
Install. If the error occurs again, record the above
An error has ocurred while trying to install one of 
the files necessary for proper operation of 1-2-3 
Release 4 for DOS.  If you are installing to a network drive,
make sure you have the proper access rights to the target
directory that you specified earlier.
You have not completed Install.
You have not yet used Install to record your name and
organization name on your copy of 1-2-3. You must do so
before you can run your copy of 1-2-3.
You can end Install now, but you will have to start Install
again later to record your name and organization name.
You have asked to end Install before recording your name
and organization name on your copy of 1-2-3. Ending Install
now will not damage your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4, but you
will have to use Install again to record your name and
organization name before you can use your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4.
To use your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4, you must complete
the entire Install procedure. If you end Install now,
you will have to run Install again later.
You are choosing to end Install before transferring the
1-2-3 Release 4 files. It is wise to let Install transfer
the files for you to ensure that they are decompressed.
You may end Install at this point, but you will have to
complete Install before you can use 1-2-3 Release 4.
You have not completed the Install procedure.
the entire Install procedure. Because you are ending
Install now, you will have to run Install again later.
You are choosing to end Install before transferring all the
1-2-3 Release 4 files. You should let Install transfer the
files for you to ensure that the files are decompressed and
are transferred to your hard disk. You must end Install now,
but you will have to complete Install before you can use
1-2-3 Release 4.
Before you specify programs to transfer, you
must first select a hard disk to which to transfer
the programs and press ENTER. Install checks your
selected disk drive for available space.
You have not yet used Install to record your server
name and organization name on your copy of 1-2-3. You must do
so before you can run your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4.
You can end Install now, but you will have to start
Install from the original Install Disk later to record
your server name and organization name.
You have asked to end Install before recording your server
name and organization name on your copy of 1-2-3. Ending Install
will have to use Install again to record your server name and
are transferred to your server's hard disk. You must end Install
now, but you will have to complete Install before you can use
An error occurred when Install tried to access the directory
you specified. You must specify another directory.
Press ESC to leave Help
Press ENTER to select different drive
Press ENTER to continue; ESC to select new drive
Press ENTER to select different drive; ESC to end Install
Press ENTER to select new directory
Press ENTER to continue with Install
Press ESC to end Install
Press ENTER to continue; ESC to end Install
 displays a Help screen.
Press ENTER to select operating system; ESC to end Install
Press ENTER to select different directory; ESC to end Install
You must run Install from the original Install Disk
before you can run 1-2-3 Release 4.
1-2-3 Release 4 cannot run on this type of processor. You
must have an 80286 or 80386 processor.
1-2-3 Release 4 cannot be run from a diskette drive.
1-2-3 cannot continue.
The media it is installed on is defective.
Contact your technical resource person or your
computer dealer immediately.
Your drive is reporting that it is not ready.
Be sure that a disk is inserted in the drive correctly
and that the drive door is closed.
The directory that the 123OVL environment variable specifies
Respecify the 123OVL environment variable to contain a valid
directory, or create a directory on the drive with the name
that the 123OVL environment variable specifies. If this error
occurs again, record the above error message and contact your
technical resource person or network administrator.
1-2-3 is not in a usable format on your hard disk.
1-2-3 was not transferred to your hard disk using the
Install program. To make your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4
usable, run the Install program from your 1-2-3 Release 4
program directory.
You are trying to run 1-2-3 with OS/2.
1-2-3 Release 4 runs with DOS. Start
DOS and type 123 at the DOS prompt to
run 1-2-3 Release 4.
The file that starts 1-2-3 Release 4 could not be
found. Verify that the 123DOS.EXE file exists in the
same directory as the 123.EXE file. If it does not
exist, use the Install program to transfer the file
to your 1-2-3 Release 4 program directory.
Access error while getting file information.
A problem occurred while copying the program file to the directory
that the 123OVL environment variable specified. Wait a while and
restart 1-2-3. If the error occurs again, record the above error
message and contact your technical resource person or network
Other process error.
that the 123OVL environment variable specified. Either another
process is using the file or another process has locked the drive.
Check your other processes, then restart 1-2-3. If the error occurs
again, record the above error message and contact your technical
resource person or network administrator.
Bad media error.
There is a problem with the disk that contains the directory
that the 123OVL environment variable specified. Record this
error message and contact your technical resource person or
network administrator immediately.
Access error opening file.
Access error closing file.
The disk containing the 123OVL directory does not have
enough room to contain the files necessary to run 1-2-3. Make
room on the disk and then restart 1-2-3. If this error occurs
again, record this error message and contact your technical
1-2-3 cannot continue.
Access error reading product core file prior to copying it
to the directory that the 123OVL environment variable specified.
A problem occurred while trying to copy the necessary files. Restart
1-2-3. If this error occurs again, record the above error message
and contact your technical resource person or network administrator.
Access error writing product core file to the directory that the
123OVL environment variable specified.
The product core was not correctly copied to the
directory that the 123OVL environment variable specified.
Restart 1-2-3. If this error occurs again, record the above
error message and contact your technical resource person or
network administrator.
A problem occurred while copying the product file to the
A disk error occurred while closing the file.
Cannot close file.
1-2-3 Release 4 cannot run in a Presentation Manager
Open a full-screen command prompt, make the drive and
directory containing the 1-2-3 files current, and start
@Lotus@ (R) @1-2-3@ (R)
The new dimension in spreadsheet power and
performance, featuring 3-D worksheets, business
graphics, and advanced database features.
Copyright 1994 Lotus Development Corporation
All Rights Reserved.
LICENSING INFORMATION:
User name:     $
Organization:  $
Use, duplication or sale of this product, except as
described in the Lotus Software Agreement, is strictly
prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
@Lotus@ (R) @1-2-3@ (R) Release 4
Copyright 1994 Lotus Development Corporation. All rights reserved.
 Use, duplication, or sale of this product, except as
 prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
Server name:   $
The name information recorded on your copy of 1-2-3 has been
tampered with. The program cannot continue.
There is not enough memory available to run 1-2-3. Remove
all memory-resident programs and restart 1-2-3.
1-2-3 Release 4 could not run because the IOPL variable in your
CONFIG.SYS is set to NO. You must set IOPL=YES in your CONFIG.SYS
file and restart your computer before using 1-2-3 Release 4.
1-2-3 cannot continue.
Access-denied error loading 1-2-3.
Restart 1-2-3. If this error occurs again, record the above
error message and the name of the file shown below. Then
contact your technical resource person or network
This is the file that caused the error:
Your 1-2-3 program is either corrupted or is on the hard
disk in compressed format. Run Install from the Install
Disk before trying to use 1-2-3 again.
This is the file that is corrupt:
Your operating system is running the maximum number
of programs it can manage at this time. Reduce the
number of programs running on your system, and start
@Lotus@ (R) @1-2-3@ (R)
The new dimension in spreadsheet power and
performance, featuring 3-D worksheets, business
graphics, and advanced database features.
Copyright 1994 Lotus Development Corporation
All Rights Reserved
LICENSING INFORMATION:
User name:     $
Organization name:  $
Use, duplication or sale of this product, except as
described in the Lotus Software Agreement, is strictly
prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
                       
               
Beta software and a trade secret of Lotus Development Corp.
Use, duplication or sale of this product, except as described in the Lotus
Software Agreement, is strictly prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
Welcome to Lotus 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS.  1-2-3 offers a graphical 
user interface, full mouse functionality, worksheet tabs, scroll
bars, SmartIcons, and a status bar that provides one-click access
to common tasks.  1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS also offers the best DOS
spreadsheet compatability with 1-2-3 Release 4 for Windows.    
While your software is installing, please call 1-800-346-6408 
in the U.S., 1-800-GO LOTUS in Canada, or mail us your registration 
card.  As a registered user, you will be kept informed of product
upgrades and special offers available to Lotus customers.
To learn about new features in 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS, begin 
with QuickStart for Upgraders, our online tutorial designed  
especially for upgraders.  Quickstart provides information and 
examples to help you become more productive in less than an hour. 
/Tools is a new option on the 1-2-3 menu.  From the /Tools menu, 
you can check your work for spelling errors, add a comment to a
cell, send and receive mail, start 1-2-3 add-ins, and use Version 
Manager to work with what-if scenarios.
1-2-3 delivers greater productivity to workgroups. Version
Manager lets you create your own versions of data and
formulas, and build multiple versions into scenarios for 
powerful what-if analysis.
Worksheet tabs make 3D spreadsheets more powerful and easier 
to use.  You can name each sheet, and click a tab to move quickly 
from worksheet to worksheet, and from file to file.
1-2-3 Release 4 includes a new /Tools menu collection of 
important spreadsheet tasks. Cell Notes allows you to
annotate spreadsheet formulas and results, or write a 
message in your spreadsheet for someone else. New Analyze   
command provides easier access to powerful spreadsheet
tools such as Auditor, Solver and Backsolver.
New Dialog Boxes provide an interactive way to change 
spreadsheet settings without learning additional menu
commands. 1-2-3 Release 4 logically utilizes Dialog Boxes
as a part of new features like Version Manager and Spell
Check, as well as introducing Dialog Boxes with action-
buttons for most freguently used Print and Graph tasks.
Using a Mouse in Dialog Boxes, in addition to your Keyboard,  
is fully supported and can help make you even more 
productive in 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS.
Install will copy marked items to disk drive
goes to next page
goes to previous page
This screen prompts you to select the add-ins you want 1-2-3
to automatically load at the start of each work session. 1-2-3
will load each program with a mark next to its name.
If a program that you do not want to load has a
 to move the highlight to the program
name.  Press the space bar to remove the mark.
If a program that you want to load does not have a
name.  Press the space bar to add a mark.
To use an add-in 1-2-3 had loaded, you must still invoke, or
start, it.  While working in 1-2-3, you use the add-in menu to
load, start, and manage add-in programs.  To display the add-in
menu, press ALT-F10 (ADDIN).  See Getting Started (or What's New)
for more information on using add-ins
This is billboard 1 for standalone install.
This is billboard 2 for standalone install.
This is billboard 3 for standalone install.
This is billboard 4 for standalone install.
This is billboard 5 for standalone install.
This is billboard 6 for standalone install.
This is billboard 1 for distributed.
This is billboard 2 for distributed.
This is billboard 3 for distributed.
This is billboard 4 for distributed.
This is billboard 5 for distributed.
This is billboard 6 for distributed.
This is billboard 1 for server install.
This is billboard 2 for server install.
This is billboard 3 for server install.
This is billboard 4 for server install.
@ move highlight; @ENTER@ to accept selection
@F1@ for Help; @ESC@ to end install
The 1-2-3 Install program lets you install 1-2-3 on the hard 
disk of your personal computer or on a server. 
If you want to use 1-2-3 on your own computer, choose
Install 1-2-3.  This option transfers 1-2-3 program files
to your personal computer. It also lets you specify which 
optional programs to transfer to your hard disk with 1-2-3.
If you are a network administrator, choose Install 1-2-3
on a Server.  This option transfers 1-2-3 program files to
a server so you can set up 1-2-3 for network users.
Install 1-2-3 on a Server
Select this option to transfer the 1-2-3 
program files to the hard disk of your
program files to the server's hard disk.
Select this only if you are a network 
@ move highlight; @ENTER@ to accept selection
@F1@ for Help; @ESC@ for previous screen
Server Installation lets users run 1-2-3 from the network. 
This method saves disk space on each user's computer.
Distribution Installation lets users run Install from the
network to transfer 1-2-3 program files to their computer's
hard disk.  This method lets users run 1-2-3 from their
Server Installation
Distribution Installation
Select this option to transfer 1-2-3 program 
files to the server. Then each user can run
1-2-3 from the network.
Select this option to copy compressed 1-2-3 
files to the server. Then each user on
the network can run Install from the
network instead of from disks to install
1-2-3 on their computer.
                             @RECORDING YOUR NAME@
            Your name:    $
            Organization name: $
                         Press @INS@ when done.
            @F1@ displays a Help screen.    @ESC@ for previous screen.
After the first time you use Install you can record your name
but not the organization name. After you enter and confirm this
name Install records it on your copy of 1-2-3. You will see
your name and organization name every time you start 1-2-3.
You can edit the names using BACKSPACE, DEL, 
After you finish editing both names, press INS.
To record your name, follow these steps:
* Type your name below. If you make a mistake while typing,  
   use BACKSPACE, DEL, 
 to edit, then press ENTER.  
                    @RECORDING THE SERVER AND ORGANIZATION NAME@
            Server name:  $
            Organization name: $
        Press @ENTER@ to switch between names, @INS@ when done.
            @F1@ displays a Help screen.    @ESC@ for previous screen.
Install uses the information you enter on this screen to record
your server name and organization name on your copy of 1-2-3.
Users will see the name and organization name you enter when they 
run Install from the network.  Users will be able to change the
server name but not the organization name.
You can edit the names using BACKSPACE, DEL, 
After you finish editing both names, press INS.
To record your server name and organization name, follow these steps:
* Type your server name below. If you make a mistake while typing,
   use BACKSPACE, DEL, 
 to edit, then press ENTER.  
* Type your organization name. If you do not have an organization
  name, type your name a second time. Then press INS.
                          @RECORDING THE SERVER NAME@
            Server name:  $
            Organization name: $
                         Press @INS@ when done.
            @F1@ displays a Help screen.    @ESC@ for previous screen.
After the first time you use Install you can change your server 
name but not the organization name. After you enter and confirm 
this name, Install records it on your copy of 1-2-3. You will see
your server name and organization name every time you start 1-2-3.
You can edit the names using BACKSPACE, DEL, 
After you finish editing both names, press INS.
To record your server name, follow these steps:
* Type your server name below. If you make a mistake while typing,
   use BACKSPACE, DEL, 
 to edit, then press ENTER.  
 Type the letter of your hard-disk drive: #
Enter the letter of your server's hard-disk drive. The default
letter, C, is the letter assigned to most hard-disk drives. If
you are not sure of the letter of your server's hard-disk drive,
check with your technical resource person.
NOTE: If you are working at a node, specify the drive letter you
used to connect to the server directory that will contain the 
program directory.
 Type a name for your 1-2-3 directory:    $
Lotus recommends that you accept the default directory
names, LOTUS\123R4D and LOTUS\123R4D\ADDINS. Accepting
the default directories will ensure that the new 
directories contain files only for 1-2-3 Release 4.
If you want to specify a different name for the 1-2-3
Release 4 program or add-in directory, use the following
keys to edit the directory name:  BACKSPACE, DEL, 
              @CHOOSING A LOCATION FOR THE COUNT UTILITY@
        The Count utility lets you control how many users can
        share your copy of 1-2-3 Release 4. You may choose to
        transfer the Count utility to a different directory than
        the 1-2-3 product directory.
        If you want Install to transfer the Count utility to a
        location other than the 1-2-3 program directory, type Y.
        If you want Install to transfer the Count utility to the
        1-2-3 program directory, type N.
        Do you want Install to transfer the Count utility to a
        location other than the 1-2-3 program directory?  #
      Press @ENTER@ to accept, @F1@ for Help, @ESC@ for previous screen. 
       The COUNT utility BLAH BLAH BLAH....
       BLAH....es to and from the 1-2-3 Release 3 file format.
       BLAH....you can use Translate only from your hard disk,
       Lotus recommends that you transfer the COUNT utility
       to a directory other than the 1-2-3 Release 4 program
       directory.
       BLAH...files have been compressed to reduce the number of
       BLAH...n your Release 4 package. Install not only transfers
       BLAH...ETC...the program directory, it also decompresses them
       to make them usable. If you do not transfer the Translate
       utility now and find that you need it later, you can either
       use Install again or use a utility called Inflate to transfer
       files necessary to use Translate. For more information on
       using Inflate, see Appendix 1 of Reference.
              @SPECIFYING A DRIVE FOR THE COUNT UTILITY@
          1-2-3 Count drive: #
       Press @ENTER@ to accept, @F1@ for Help, @ESC@ for previous screen. 
Specify the hard-disk drive to which you want to transfer the
Count utility. You need 90KB of available hard-disk space for the
Count utility files.
              @SPECIFYING A DIRECTORY FOR THE COUNT UTILITY@
      1-2-3 Count directory: $
       Press @ENTER@ to accept, @F1@ for Help, @ESC@ for previous screen. 
The network administrator should be the only person
with access to the count directory.
If you want to specify a name other than \COUNT for the 1-2-3
Release 4 Count utility directory, use the following keys to
edit the directory name:  BACKSPACE, DEL, 
The 1-2-3 Install Program guides you through the following
steps, which you must complete before you can use 1-2-3:
* Recording your server name and organization name on your copy of 1-2-3
* Specifying your server's hard-disk drive and directory for 1-2-3
  and Wysiwyg files and the Count utility files
* Transferring the 1-2-3 files to your server's hard disk
NOTE  If you want only to specify or change your equipment
selections, start Install from your hard disk.
Use, duplication, or sale of this software, except as
described in the Lotus Software Agreement, is strictly
prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
Welcome to the 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS Install program. You
use the Install program to prepare your system for use with 
1-2-3 Release 4. In Install you will select a drive and
directory for the 1-2-3 program and add-in files. You will also
specify the 1-2-3 programs you want to transfer, such as the
Auditor, Backsolver, Viewer, and Solver add-ins, Translate
utility, and Add-In Library and DataLens files, and whether 
you want 1-2-3 to automatically load add-ins. You will then 
transfer the 1-2-3 files to your server's hard disk.
You can end Install at any time before you complete it, but you
must complete it before you can use 1-2-3.
The 1-2-3 Install Program guides you through the following
steps, which you must complete before you can use 1-2-3:
* Specifying your server's hard-disk drive and directory for 1-2-3
  and Wysiwyg files
* Specifying a directory on your server's hard-disk drive for the
  Count utility files
* Transferring the 1-2-3 files to your server's hard disk
NOTE  If you want only to specify or change your equipment
selections, start Install from your hard disk.
Use, duplication, or sale of this software, except as
described in the Lotus Software Agreement, is strictly
prohibited. Violators may be prosecuted.
Welcome to the 1-2-3 Release 4 for DOS Install program. You
use the Install program to prepare your system for use with
1-2-3 Release 4. In Install, you will select a drive and
directory for the 1-2-3 program, add-in files and the Count
utility files. You will also specify the 1-2-3 programs you want
to transfer, such as the Auditor, Backsolver, Viewer, Solver add-ins,
Translate utility, and Add-in Library and DataLens files, and whether
you want 1-2-3 to automatically load add-ins. You will then
transfer the 1-2-3 files to your server's hard disk.
You can end Install at any time before you complete it, but you
must complete it before you can use 1-2-3.
You use the 1-2-3 Install program to specify your equipment
so 1-2-3 can work correctly with it. You specify your
equipment by selecting items on menus. Install then creates
a driver configuration file (DCF) in your personal directory.
NOTE  You must know the path to your personal directory before
you can run Install. You create your personal directory if it is
on your computer; your network administrator creates your personal
directory if it is on the server.
To see a list of the keys you can use, press F1 now. You
can also press F1 for additional help at any time.
@TRANSFERRING THE TRANSLATE UTILITY@
The Translate utility lets you exchange data between 1-2-3
and other programs. To save space on your server's hard disk,
Install transfers the Translate utility to your server's hard
disk only if you choose to do so. You cannot use the Translate
utility until you transfer it to your server's hard disk.
If you want Install to transfer the Translate utility,
type Y. If you do not want Install to transfer the
Translate utility, type N.
Do you want to transfer the Translate utility?  #
@F1@ displays a Help screen.  @ESC@ moves to a previous screen.
The Translate utility is a program that lets you convert
data files to and from the 1-2-3 Release 3 file format.
Because you can use Translate only from your server's hard
disk Lotus recommends that you transfer the Translate utility
to your 1-2-3 Release 4 program directory now unless you
are certain that you will never need to use it.
The 1-2-3 files have been compressed to reduce the number of
disks in your Release 4 package. Install not only transfers
the files to the program directory, it also decompresses them
to make them usable. If you do not transfer the Translate
utility now and find that you need it later, you can either
use Install again or use a utility called Inflate to transfer
files necessary to use Translate. For more information on
using Inflate, see Appendix 1 of Reference.
@TRANSFERRING WYSIWYG FILES@
To save space on your hard disk, Install transfers Wysiwyg
to your server's hard disk only if you choose to do so. Users
cannot use Wysiwyg until you transfer it to your server's
If you want Install to transfer Wysiwyg to your hard disk,
type Y. If you do not want Install to transfer Wysiwyg to
your hard disk, type N.
Do you want to transfer Wysiwyg ?  #
@NOTE@  You must load Wysiwyg before you can use it to enhance
1-2-3 printing and display. To load Wysiwyg, start 1-2-3 and
press ADDIN (ALT-F10), select Load, and specify WYSIWYG.PLC.
To get Help on loading Wysiwyg, press F1 while using 1-2-3.
@F1@ displays a Help screen.  @ESC@ moves to a previous screen.
Wysiwyg provides spreadsheet publishing features for use
with 1-2-3 Release 4. Because users can use the Wysiwyg
files only from your server's hard disk, Lotus recommends
that you transfer the Wysiwyg files to your server's hard
disk now unless you are certain that you will never need
to use Wysiwyg.
Before you can use Wysiwyg with 1-2-3, you must load it.
See "Basic Procedures for Using Wysiwyg" in Chapter 2 of
"Wysiwyg Publishing and Presentation" for instructions on
loading Wysiwyg.
The Install program found files in an existing ADDINS
subdirectory. Because you chose to transfer Wysiwyg to
your server's hard disk, the Wysiwyg files may write over
existing files in the ADDINS subdirectory.
                  @TRANSFERRING THE 1-2-3 FILES@
                 Insert the disk labeled %
                 into drive #.
                 Press @ENTER@ to continue, @F1@ for Help.
To transfer the 1-2-3 files to your server's hard disk,
Install prompts you for some of the disks that came in
your 1-2-3 package. Insert the disk named above into your
disk drive now, press ESC to leave Help, and press ENTER.
Because Install decompresses files as it transfers them,
transferring files will take some time.
Mail Enabling for cc:Mail
Add-In Library Files
1,1,10,10,10,8,10,10,0,ADDINS,3,auditor,,0,AUDITOR.PLC,-1
1,1,11,10,11,8,11,10,0,ADDINS,3,backsolver,,0,BSOLVER.PLC,-1
1,1,12,10,12,8,12,10,0,ADDINS,3,viewer,,0,VIEWER.PLC,-1
0,1,13,10,13,8,13,10,0,ADDINS,3,solver,,0,SOLVER.PLC,-1
1,1,14,10,14,8,14,10,0,,4,ccmail,,0,,-1
0,1,15,10,15,8,15,10,0,,5,leafprod,,0,,-1
0,1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,,5,leafadd,,0,,5
                   @SELECTING ADDITIONAL TOOLS TO TRANSFER@
          ...............................
                                          -----------------------
        Space needed for selected options:
                 Remaining space on drive:
 Type the letter of your hard-disk drive: #
Enter the letter of your server's hard-disk drive. 
Install will transfer compressed 1-2-3 files to a
directory you specify on this drive.
Install cannot locate the drive you specified. 
Please enter another drive letter.
The drive that you specified is not ready.  Please enter 
another drive letter. 
An error ocurred when Install tried to access the directory
that you specified.  You must specify another server directory 
before Install can continue.
The server is write-protected.
Install cannot transfer the necessary files because the 
directory you specified is write-protected.  Please 
enter another server directory.
 Type a name for your 1-2-3 directory:    $
Lotus recommends that you accept the default directory name 
123_DIST.  Accepting the default directory will ensure that  
the distribution directory will contain only compressed 1-2-3 
If you want to specify a different name for the distribution 
directory, use the following keys to edit the name: BACKSPACE, 
Install encountered an error while attempting 
to search for compressed 1-2-3 files in the
directory you specified.  You may continue or
The directory that you specified
You should should use this directory only if these
are compressed 1-2-3 files.
If these files are compressed 1-2-3 files, type @Y@.
If the files in this directory are not compressed 
1-2-3 files, type @N@.  Then enter a different
You have not completed the Install procedure.
To transfer compressed 1-2-3 files to a distribution
directory, you must complete the entire Install procedure. 
Because you are ending Install now, you will have to run 
it again before network users can run Install from the 
You are choosing to end Install before transferring all 
of the 1-2-3 files.  You should let Install transfer
the files for you to ensure that they are placed 
properly.  If you end Install now, you will have to
complete Install later before network users can run
Install from the distribution directory.
You have successfully copied compressed 1-2-3  
files to a distribution directory on the server.
Network users can now connect to a distribution 
directory and run Install from the server to install
1-2-3 on their computers.
Press ENTER to exit to the operating system.
You cannot install 1-2-3 at this time.
The distribution directory you are using is damaged. 
Please consult your network administrator for assistance. 
Install cannot update files in the target directory 
properly.  If you are installing to your hard disk, check 
for available disk space.  If you are installing into a
distribution directory, check the server's hard disk for
available disk space and verify your access rights.
Install needs to update the file INSTEXT.RI in the target 
directory to proceed properly.  This file holds encrypted 
information essential to the functioning of 1-2-3 and Install. 
Install will now transfer files from the distribution  
directory to the drive and directory you specified.
After the files have been transferred, you may
begin selecting the equipment you will use with 1-2-3.
To transfer the 1-2-3 files to your server, Install 
prompts you for some of the disks that came in your
1-2-3 package.  Insert the disk named above into your 
diskette drive, press ESC to leave Help, and press
This is billboard 5 for server install.
This is billboard 6 for server install.
